Azure functions and extensions logger (#7000)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/dotnet/guides/azure-functions-worker/index.mdx

---

> title: Azure Functions Isolated Worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Azure Functions (Isolated Worker)
```

> description: "Learn about Sentry's .NET integration with Azure Functions Isolated Worker."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn about Sentry's .NET integration with Azure Functions."
```

---

> Sentry provides an integration with Azure Functions Isolated Worker through the [Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry provides an integration with Azure Functions through the [Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker).
```

<Note>

This package requires using the Azure Functions ["Isolated Worker Process"](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/dotnet-isolated-process-guide) execution model.

</Note>

Author: https://www.martinfowler.com/bliki/TwoHardThings.html

All triggers are supported.

## Install

Add the Sentry dependency:

```powershell {tabTitle:Package Manager}
Install-Package Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker -Version {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.azurefunctions.worker') }}
```

```shell {tabTitle:.NET Core CLI}
dotnet add package Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker -v {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.azurefunctions.worker') }}

> ```

Reviewer: The .NET CLI command should come first.

Author: I looked up another article and carried the order from there. Do we still want to have .NET CLI first?

Author: I've swapped the order. If the decision is to keep it consistent with the rest of the sample, we can revert later.

> You can combine this integration with a logging library like `log4net`, `NLog`, or `Serilog`. The logging integration also captures events when an error is logged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package extends [Sentry.Extensions.Logging](/platforms/dotnet/guides/extensions-logging/). This means that besides the Azure Functions related features, through this package you'll also get access to the `ILogger<T>` integration and also the features available in the main [Sentry](/platforms/dotnet/) SDK.
```

(don't mention log4net, nlog or serilog here)

## Configure

> Sentry integration with Azure Functions Isolated Worker is done by calling `.UseSentry()` and specifying the options. E.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry integration with Azure Functions (when using the Isolated Worker Process execution mode) is done by calling `.UseSentry()` and specifying the options. E.g.:
```

```csharp
var host = new HostBuilder()
    .ConfigureFunctionsWorkerDefaults((host, builder) =>
    {
        builder.UseSentry(host, options =>
        {

>             // o.Dsn = "<DSN>";

Reviewer: Let the docs fill in the DSN

```suggestion
            options.Dsn = "___PUBLIC_DSN___";
```

Author: That's nice!

---
title: Azure Functions Isolated Worker
description: "Learn about Sentry's .NET integration with Azure Functions Isolated Worker."
---

Sentry provides an integration with Azure Functions Isolated Worker through the [Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker).
All triggers are supported.

## Install

> Add the Sentry dependency:

Author: > Sentry captures data by using an SDK within your application’s runtime. Install the Azure Functions Worker package to add the Sentry dependency:

@lizokm, I'm not sure the sentence conveys the right message. "Sentry captures data using an SDK within your application’s runtime." That's too general. In this specific scenario, Sentry is using Azure Functions Isolated Worker SDK.

Also, "Install the Azure Functions Worker package to add the Sentry dependency:" is misleading as "Azure Functions Worker package" is not a Sentry package but Microsoft. The sentry package would be the `Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker` package. How about this wording?

> Sentry captures data within your application through the Functions middleware. Install the `Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker` package to add the Sentry dependency:

> Add the Sentry dependency:

Reviewer 2: Hey @SeanFeldman -

Liza was covering my PR reviews while I was sick. Your wording looks great to me!

> 
> Add the Sentry dependency:

Reviewer: Less is more.  This particular line does not need to explain much.

```suggestion

Add the Sentry dependency to your Azure Functions application:
```

```powershell {tabTitle:Package Manager}
Install-Package Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker -Version {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.azurefunctions.worker') }}
```

```shell {tabTitle:.NET Core CLI}
dotnet add package Sentry.AzureFunctions.Worker -v {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.azurefunctions.worker') }}
```

> You can combine this integration with a logging library like `log4net`, `NLog`, or `Serilog`. The logging integration also capture events when an error is logged.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can combine this integration with a logging library like `log4net`, `NLog`, or `Serilog`. The logging integration also captures events when an error is logged.

```

> ### Configuring

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Configure
```

> All `ASP.NET Core` configurations are valid here. But one configuration in particular is relevant.
> 
> `FlushOnCompletedRequest` ensures all events are flushed out. This is because the general ASP.NET Core hooks for when the process is exiting are not guaranteed to run in a serverless environment. This setting ensures that no event is lost if AWS recycles the process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While all `ASP.NET Core` configurations are valid here, the `FlushOnCompletedRequest` configuration in particular is relevant. That's because general ASP.NET Core hooks for when the process is exiting are not guaranteed to run in a serverless environment and `FlushOnCompletedRequest` flushes all events out. This ensures that no event is lost if AWS recycles the process.
```

Author: This section shouldn't have been there... copy/pasta problem 🙈
Removed it. Please see the updated version.
